ML- Bharatendra Rai
Class- 5- K-Nearest Neighbour
K-Nearest Neighbour is not to be confused with K-Means Clustering. Both of these are different methods.
K-Nearest Neighbour is a Supervised Learning Algorithm, whereas K-Means Clustering is a Unsupervised Learning Model.

In pattern recognition, the K-Nearest Neighbours Algorithm is a non-parametric method used for classification and regression. 

Scatterplot of GRE and GPA. 
In K nearest neighbours, we look at the k nearest neighbours, and then make predictions for our new point.
K as odd- for no ties.
Regression- mean of k numbers.
Distance measure- 
Euclidian method- to understand how far the neighbours are.
d= sqrt((q1-p1)^2+ (q2-p2)^2)- 2D

Manhattan method-
sigma(abs(pi-qi))

Minkowski method- 
sigma(abs(pi-qi)^n)^1/n

We use Euclidian methods.

Standardization is really important as every data variable will have different range of value.GPA varies between 0 and 5 whereas GRE scores are in the range of 200-600
Normalisation or z score (-3 to +3)- subtract mean divide by sd.
min-max(0 to 1)- subtract the max from each number and divide by (min-max)

Applications of K Nearest Neighbours-
1. Recommendation Systems
2. Anomaly Detection
3. Text categorisation
4. Finance
5. Medicine

K Nearest Neigbour to Classification and Regression.

Example-1- KNN using Classification
trainControl--- from caret package
method= repeatedcv--- repeated cross validation
number of resampling iterations-- 10
repeats--- repeat the whole thing 3 times

3 predictors
2 classes
In each cross-validation- the sample was divided into 10 parts or 10 folds and 9 of the values were taken to train the model and the model was accessed on the one value left.
This whole thing was repeated 3 times.
Accuracy and Kappa values have been given.
Accuracy was used to select the optimal model using the largest value. The final value used for the model was 33.

The model was improved fromm the baseline, but there is a scope for further improvement. 
We choose model on Accuracy. We can also use ROC for the model.
